Hello and welcome in this lecture.
We are going to be looking at an algorithm for smooth client interpellation using something called linear
interpolation so we gonna learn what linear interpolation is going to look at the algorithm outline
There's a diagram and then we're going to implement some pseudocode or rather you're going to have a
go at implementing the pseudo code for this algorithm that we're going to implement in future lectures.
So let's dive in and see how it works.
So now that we have got past the stage of having to refactor our code we can actually get into the details
of how we are going to be creating this linear interpolation on the client.
And for that we obviously need to understand what linear interpolation is and what interpolation is
in general.
So interpellation is just the act of trying to find a path between here a and here B.
Now the simplest thing to do is to draw a line straight between them and this is the essence of what
linear interpolation is that is linear interpolation right there.
Well I did drawing that line from point A to Point B.
Point A and Point B could be vectors.
They could be lots of other things they could be floating point numbers.
They could be anything that we could interpolate between like best try and find the values in between
now.
This is called linear interpolation it's the simplest kind it's often abbreviated down at to Lerp which
is a really funny contraction of linear interpolation so if you see things in code called learning then
you know how to essentially pronounce it in your head as a linear interpolation instead of some other
funny contractions like slurping which is spherical linear interpolation and so on.
But we're not going to go into those in great detail just yet.
So point A point B we draw a straight line through them.
And how do we do that.
Well we do this with a series of points and we have a parameter that we tweak to get all the points
along this line and that parameter is often called Alpha as it is in the unreel engine function.
So when Alpha is set to 0 we get the first point.
We get a point.
And when we increase Alpha we start to move along this line towards been.
So 2.5 is a quarter of the way along this line and point.
Sorry.
Point to 5 and point five is halfway along the line you get the idea until we get up to 1 which is the
maximum and that gets us to the end of the line at B.
So that is how we use a Lerp function to get from point A to Point B.
But how are we going to use it in the context of trying to make our movement look smooth on the fly.
Well for that we're going to have to look at a time diagram So here we've got the position of our client
and I'm just taking one of the three position dimensions x and this is how we're going to do climb interpellation
over time.
So we get updates from our server coming in like this and it's saying okay our position currently is
at x equals zero at this given time here.
Okay and then we don't do anything at this stage.
We don't have enough information to do any interpolation because we need two points in order to do interpellation.
So what do we do.
We wait for the next server update which comes through and says Oh you've moved on your now at X is
3 or something like that were basically moved on further along x.
This is an x position now and it's moved along in time as well obviously because time incessantly moves
on.
So what do we do when we receive the second update.
Now we've got two points.
We can do interpellation between these we can do linear interpolation for example and that's what we're
going to do.
We're going to say what was this time period.
How long does it take between our two server updates.
And let's take that amount of time to interpolate between the two positions so that what we'll get is
a straight line that replicates the straight line that would have happened between these two updates.
But because we didn't have the information we couldn't do it then.
So were doing a little bit delayed as you can see it happening after a delay of that server update.
So in the worst case on our server update being one second then our updates will happen one second delayed
which is okay.
It's a bit not great but it is better to be smooth or at least in certain games is besley we move in
a certain games.
It's better to be instant So you have to make those trade off decisions with your own game play in when
deciding and creating multiplayer games this is why we often say multiplayer needs to be a design consideration
from the outset because there's certain restrictions that you need to play with.
Okay so what do we do now.
Well we are doing this interpellation and hopefully we're waiting.
We have said that this time interval is how long it took between the server updates.
We're hoping that the next server update will come after the same time interval again.
And if it does yeah there we go then we have got a new position to interpolate to and that's what we're
going to do.
We're going to look over how long it took between our last two updates and we are going to linearly
interpolate to try and replicate the slope that we had between these two updates so you can see it's
all happening just a little bit delayed by that update cycle and so on so forth.
Now what happens if there is a little bit of a variation in our updates coming through what happens
for example if we have an up day come through early if we have an update come through early like we
do in this case then what we're going to do is we are going to cut short what we have been doing at
the current location where we got to in our interpellation you can see we didn't quite make it to this
point that the server updated us too but instead we are going to start from the location where we were
cut short stop there and we're going to use that location as the starting point for an interpolation
to the point that the server data's with and the time interval for that is going to be still the time
between the last two updates which is this new update coming in and it's slightly shorter than the updates
that we've had previously because maybe an network conditions have changed maybe an update Interpol
has changed.
So we are going to use the new Intervale basically.
What about if they come later.
These updates come later.
Well you can kind of see what's going to happen.
We got our update come through later than expected which means that we've actually carried on moving
past the point that the server told us.
Because it took longer and we're similarly going to use that longer time interval to extend our interpellation
a little bit longer.
So we got a slightly gentler slope here going back up to this late update.
So that's the idea that's how we're going to be doing linear interpolation by storing the last location.
That we received from the server and the next location that we receive from the service in the last
two locations and the time it took them and we are going to be interpolating smoothly over that time.
And for that we're going to be using a linear interpolation.
So I'm actually going to challenge you to come up with the pseudo code for the algorithm to implement
this approach.
Now don't worry this is a hard challenge.
And if you don't come up with the exact pseudocode that's not a failure.
I actually just want you to attempt to come up with the pseudocode because that already having battled
with the problem and having turned over in your mind is going to help you understand the pseudo code
that I do write so much better.
So the important thing is to try as hard as you can and if you get stuck Don't worry.
The important thing is to have tried really hard.
So with that said here are the points to consider.
You need to consider what you're going to do on tick on the client in order to implement this interpellation
what's going to happen every single tick.
Then think about how about on rep when a new server updates come through.
What are you going to do what you're going to do with that new information that just arrived.
You going to use the Lerp function rembert the alert function takes two arguments the out a and the
B.
So the point we're starting at and the point that we are ending at and it takes an alpha which ranges
between 0 and 1 which allows us to go smoothly between point eight and point b c you're going to use
that function to try and get that linear interpolation between the points that the server has told us.
And what data are you going to need to store so that you can set it in on rep and access it on tick
or access between ticks.
So post a video and try embattle with this pseudo code see if you can come up with something workable
again.
Don't worry if you don't come up with anything.
Just try and make note of the areas where you got stuck and what the kind of problem space looks like.
That's the idea of doing these challenges.
Okay welcome back.
So we're going to look through my pseudo code let me know how you did with that challenge again I'm
not expecting you to have solved this.
Not 100 percent anyway.
So on tick.
This is what we are going to do.
This is the bulk of the interpellation by the way most of it happens on tick.
And what we're going to do is first of all we're going to take our target location which is just going
to be that what was said in the last sir but update so we take the service stay in get its location.
That's where we're aiming to interpolate towards.
Then we take our Lerp ratio or the Alpher that we were talking about in the explanation of lumping.
And we calculate it and how do we calculate it.
Well it's the time that we've had since the last update.
So what do I mean by the last update.
Let me show you.
So here this is our last update.
And we're saying how long has elapsed between this update and where we're trying to render this tick.
So it's this part of the whole time interval and we're dividing it by the whole time interval so that
at the beginning when no time has elapsed it's going to be zero.
And at the end when all the time has elapsed it's going to be one because remember a number divided
by itself is one.
So that is why we are doing this Lerp ratio like so the time since the update divided between the time
between the last updates and that's what we're aiming for.
Then we can calculate the next location already using our Lerp function.
We're going to have this start location.
Notice I'm using green to denote variables that are on the clas.
So they are the data that we are transferring between ticks or between on rep and um using white for
local variables declared here.
So the start location is something that we have already stored and we're going to store that on rep
not show you how and the target location which we've just calculated here in the Lerp ratio which we've
just calculated here.
Then we're just going to set that location to the actor.
So our access moves to the location that we have linearly interpolated fairly straightforward right.
How about on rep.
Well on rep is going to be really really easy.
What we do is we take our start location and we reset it to the current location so that gives us the
behaviour that we wanted for the early update and the late update basically that we reset and hit our
start location to be where we currently are when these sub update came in.
Now of course here there are a few little details that I've left out the pseudo code I mean pseudo code
it is meant to be higher level.
Those details are the time since update and the time between last update that's fairly straightforward.
The time since update we're simply going to be incrementing every tick based on the delta time.
That's very easy.
And the time between last update is just going to be the time since update on rep.
So we're going to work on rep set the time between last updates to be the current time since update
and reset the time since update very straightforward.
I'll be showing you how to do that exactly in the next video.
That's not a problem.
And then I'm going to be challenging it to implement this pseudocode but not for this video for the
next one.
I'll see you there.